Experiment 8 (only theory based)

Aim: Design creative content for promotion of your business on social media platforms.
Theory:
Digital advertising refers to marketing through online channels, such as websites, streaming content, and more. Digital ads span media formats, including text, image, audio, and video. They can help you achieve a variety of business goals across the marketing funnel, ranging from brand awareness to customer engagement, to launching new products and driving repeat sales. The field of digital advertising is relatively young, in comparison to traditional channels such as magazines, billboards, and direct mail. The evolution of advertising isn't just about what the ads look like or where they appear, but also the ways they're built, sold, and measured.

Why is digital advertising important?
There are many reasons that digital ads are a crucial part of any business's marketing strategy. Maybe the most important one is that consumers are spending more and more time connected to the Internet through their computers, smartphones, and smart home devices. The average American has access to more than 10 connected devices in their household. Digital marketing allows you to meet audiences where they are. People make decisions about the goods and services they buy at all times of the day, during all kinds of activities. With digital ads, you can reach audiences when they are browsing online for products to buy. Or you might reach them when they're streaming a TV show, visiting a favorite website, or using social media. 

What are the different types of digital advertising?
There are multiple types of advertising formats in digital marketing. These are some of the most common:
Search advertising:
Search ads, also called search engine marketing (SEM), appear in search engine results pages (SERPs). These are typically text ads that appear above or alongside organic search results.

Display advertising:
Display ads are online ads that use text and visual elements, such as an image or animation, and can appear on websites, apps, and devices. They appear in or alongside the content of a website.
Online video advertising:
Online video ads are ads that use a video format. Out-stream video ads appear in places similar to display ads: on websites, apps, and devices. In-stream video ads appear before, during, or after video content.
Streaming media advertising:
Also known as over-the-top (OTT), these are a specific type of video ad that appears in streaming media content delivered over the Internet without satellite or cable.

Audio advertising:
In the context of digital advertising, audio ads are ads that play before, during, or after online audio content, such as streaming music or podcasts.



Social media advertising:
Social media ads appear in social media platforms, such as Twitter or LinkedIn.

How do digital ads work?
There is no one answer to the question, "How do digital ads work?" With the wide variety of digital ad formats, you can find ads that are simple to create and publish, as well as ads that require more complex tools. There are also ad types for all levels of budget, with different pricing models and targeting methods.

Publishing digital ads:
How digital ads are published is determined by the specific type of ad. With some ads, you can purchase advertising inventory—the space for ads on a given website, or publisher—directly from the publisher. For example, Sponsored  Brands and Sponsored  Products are  ads  that  appear  only  on  Amazon. Digital ads can also be purchased programmatically. Programmatic advertising is the automated buying and selling of digital advertising inventory, including display advertising and video advertising. You can use a demand-side platform (DSP), which is software that automates purchasing and management of digital advertising inventory from multiple publishers. A supply-side platform or sell-side platform (SSP) is software used by publishers to automate the sale and management of their advertising inventory.



Cost of digital advertising:
The cost of digital advertising also varies by format. A common type of pricing is cost-per-click (CPC), or pay-per-click (PPC), which is a pricing model where you pay each time someone clicks your ad. Another type is cost-per-mille(CPM), which means cost-per-thousand-impressions. This is a pricing model where you pay a   certain   amount   for   1,000   impressions, or   times   your   ad   appears. You might also pay using other models, such as paying each time your ad leads to a desired action (e.g., someone signs up for your email list or downloads your eBook). Because digital advertising can be measured in so many different ways—how often an ad appears, is clicked, leads to a sale, and more—pricing can be tailored to the intended function of the ad.

Targeting for digital ads:
As mentioned above, digital advertising is much more precise than more traditional forms of advertising. There are a variety of ways that ads are matched with audiences, depending on the type of ad. Search ads are targeted to specific search terms. Ads can also be matched based on shopping signals, such as audiences who have purchased products related to yours, or indicated interest in the type of product you sell. The result of this robust matching ability is that audiences can see ads that are more likely to be relevant for them. 

Digital advertising metrics:
Digital ads can be measured in almost every aspect of performance. To measure your digital advertising campaign, you might use these engagement metrics:
Clicks: How many times your ad is clicked.
Impressions: How many times your ad appears.
Click-through rate (CTR): The percentage of impressions that result in a click.
Reach: How many viewers are shown your ad.
Video completion rate: How many times viewers who are shown your video ad watch the entire ad 

The following metrics measure the results of your campaign:
Conversion rate: How many times customers performed a desired action (click, purchase, subscription) after viewing your ad
Ad-attributed sales: Purchases that can be traced back to your ad (attribution models vary by ad type and service)
Return on ad spend (ROAS): How much revenue was generated by your ad campaign in relation to how much budget you spent
Return on investment (ROI): How much net profit you earned from your ad campaign in relation to how much budget you spent
Advertising cost of sales (ACOS): The ratio of ad spends to ad-attributed sales
New-to-brand sales: How many purchases were made by customers who had never bought from you before



Digital advertising best practices and tips:
Digital advertising strategy can be complex, but there are a few key best practices you should start with:

Reach the right audience: Take advantage of the precision of digital advertising targeting, so you reach relevant audiences who are more likely to find your ad relevant and engage with it.
Track performance: Performance metrics for digital ads can be tracked closer to real-time than traditional ad formats. Stay up to date on how your ad campaign is performing, so you can see what is working and what isn't, and be efficient with your ad spend.
Test and optimize: You can customize nearly every aspect of digital ads, from the copy to the visual assets, which audience segments you're reaching, how much your budget is, and more. The best way to find success with your digital ad campaign is to keep testing variables to maximize performance. Make optimization a required part of your campaign execution.
Be authentic: Digital ads continue to become more sophisticated. At the same time, so does your audience. Online audiences are discerning, so low-effort copy or irrelevant ad content will not set you up to succeed. In all aspects of your digital advertising strategy—your visual assets, your messaging, even which audiences you choose to reach—be authentic about what you have to offer, so you can genuinely engage your audience.
Conclusion:
Thus, Canva was used to design a creative poster as a digital advertisement for promotion of a business.

